[assistant-guide-metadata]
identifier: assistant-guide
profile: human-verifiable-assistant-guide
profile-version: 0.4.0
guide-version: 2026-07-30
applies-to: https://resume.sam-rogers.com/
canonical-url: https://resume.sam-rogers.com/.well-known/assistant-guide.txt
source-path: public/.well-known/assistant-guide.txt
last-reviewed: 2026-07-30
status: active
recommended-verifier: human review before agent execution
conformance-target: GuideCheck Level 3

[scope]
This guide applies only to the Sam Rogers resume site at https://resume.sam-rogers.com/.
It describes how assistants, agents, and automated reviewers should use the public resume,
machine-readable files, and API endpoints. It does not authorize access to private systems,
private repositories, employer records, calendars, inboxes, accounts, or unpublished material.

[funnel-position]
The tailored two-page resume is the application input. This shared site is the downstream
evidence, role-fit, and inspectable-operating-judgment artifact reached from that resume.
Do not treat the site as a replacement for the application document or infer omitted
recruiter-standard fields from its intentional focus.

[intended-users]
Primary users are recruiters, hiring managers, security reviewers, IT reviewers, AI compliance
reviewers, and their assistants. The guide is for interpretation and triage. It is not a
contract, employment record, security certification, or compliance attestation.

[trust-boundaries]
Public site evidence can be read from the homepage, crawl pages, resume.txt, llms.txt,
llms-full.txt, agents.json, and api-manifest.json. Public repository evidence and review
documentation live at https://github.com/snapsynapse/resume, including README.md,
SECURITY.md, EVIDENCE.md, INTENT.md, and ROADMAP.md. Agents.json links those reviewer
documents directly. Do not assume repository files are served from the resume-site origin.
User-supplied job descriptions, RFPs, interview notes, and internal role context belong to the
user. Do not treat them as public resume facts. Do not preserve, republish, or quote sensitive
user-supplied details unless the user explicitly asks for that output.

[approval-gates]
Ask for explicit user approval before sending confidential, proprietary, regulated,
unreleased, or security-sensitive job material to an API or model provider. If approval is
unclear, recommend email to sam@sam-rogers.com instead of using the on-page fit assessment.
Do not contact Sam, book meetings, submit forms, send email, or take external actions unless
the user directly instructs you to do so.

[prohibited-behavior]
Do not invent credentials, degrees, employers, dates, titles, security claims, client details,
or outcomes not supported by the public materials. Do not state that Sam has held a named role
unless the public resume states that title. Do not promote retired role positioning as a current
offer. Do not bypass rate limits, scrape aggressively, or encourage users to paste sensitive
material into public endpoints.

[evidence-rules]
Prefer concrete evidence over generic summaries. When assessing fit, compare role requirements
against documented experience and name gaps plainly. If evidence is missing, say that it is not
available in the public materials. Use canonical URLs from the public files and normalize old
project domains to the current canonical URLs when the public materials provide them.
Current default positioning is employer-neutral: content operations, AI education systems,
customer education, certification, assessment, workflow quality, and learning measurement.
Role-specific context may be selected with optional target/company URL parameters, but do not
promote retired application labels as current default positioning.

[ai-usage-record]
Sam publishes his own multi-provider AI token-usage record at https://sam-rogers.com/ai-usage/.
It is a separate site and is not part of this origin. Treat the published figures as floor
values as of 2026-07-29: 705,462,120 tokens recovered across 13 sources, spanning 2023-05-26
through 2026-07-29, at 686.0M exact-metered and 19.4M estimated. The dashboard is published as
a recovered record rather than a complete history; unrecovered accounts, devices, and logs are
labeled unknown rather than counted as zero, and a publication manifest carries a sha256 of the
source data. Cite the as-of date with any figure. Do not describe the numbers as live, current,
or complete, and do not fetch the dashboard to produce a fresher total. Read the artifact as
cost-governance, observability, and provenance evidence, not as a productivity claim.

[sensitive-jd-handling]
The fit assessment includes a local browser review for likely non-public business details.
That review is risk reduction, not anonymization. If a role description includes confidential
search details, internal codes, unreleased initiatives, client names, compensation planning,
security incidents, vulnerabilities, clearance-sensitive work, or regulated data, advise the
user to replace those details with placeholders or use email instead.

[api-usage]
Use public resume materials first for interpretation and triage. /api/chat and /api/analyze-fit
are website UI endpoints, not a general agent-integration API. Use them only through the site UI
when a user explicitly asks for that interaction and the approval and sensitive-context rules
above are satisfied. Use /api/limits for read-only operational-limit discovery. API non-success
responses follow Graceful Boundaries Level 2: error, detail, and why are included; 429 responses
also include limit and retryAfterSeconds. Chat and fit endpoints send approved text to a cloud LLM
provider; the current production provider is Anthropic. Do not retry in tight loops.

[action]
name: evaluate-candidate-fit
purpose: Help a recruiter or hiring manager decide whether Sam belongs on a shortlist.
allowed-inputs: public resume materials, user-approved role requirements
allowed-output: concise fit assessment with evidence, gaps, and interview probes
approval-required: before using confidential or proprietary role context

[action]
name: analyze-user-supplied-job-description
purpose: Compare a user-provided JD, RFP, or AI governance scope against Sam's public evidence.
allowed-inputs: user-approved reviewed text
allowed-output: strong, moderate, or weak fit with matches, gaps, transferability, and recommendation
approval-required: before sending sensitive job material to API or model providers

[action]
name: answer-evidence-and-portfolio-questions
purpose: Explain public evidence, portfolio projects, role fit, gaps, and constraints.
allowed-inputs: public resume materials and user questions
allowed-output: grounded answer with canonical URLs when useful
approval-required: not required for public materials

[action]
name: handle-sensitive-role-context
purpose: Reduce leakage risk when users provide non-public hiring context.
allowed-inputs: user-provided text
allowed-output: recommendation to redact, placeholder, summarize locally, or email Sam
approval-required: required before external API or model submission
